EDU-14827: Configuring GraphQL cache control for GET requests (#1849)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/faststore/docs/faststore-api/configuring-graphql-cache-control.mdx

---
title: 'Configuring GraphQL cache control for GET requests'
---

> ⚠ This is an experimental feature.

> This guide explains how to configure caching for GraphQL GET requests using the `graphqlCacheControl` flag. Setting cache rules allows responses to be stored and reused for subsequent requests, reducing server load and improving store performance.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to configure caching for GraphQL GET requests using the `graphqlCacheControl` flag. Setting cache rules allows responses to be stored and reused for subsequent requests, reducing server load and improving store performance. For example, caching a product listing page (such as "Summer Collection") for five minutes allows the page to load faster for store visitors. The system serves cached content immediately, then updates it in the background, ensuring fresh results without slowing down the user experience, improving performance, and minimizing additional server load.
```

---
title: 'Configuring GraphQL cache control for GET requests'
---

> ⚠ This is an experimental feature.

> This guide explains how to configure caching for GraphQL GET requests using the `graphqlCacheControl` flag. By setting cache rules, you can store responses and reuse them for subsequent requests through [FastStore API's GraphQL layer](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/faststore-api-overview), reducing server load and improving store performance.

Reviewer: Seria interessante listar alguns casos de uso

Author: Boa! 🎗️

> This guide explains how to configure caching for GraphQL GET requests using the `graphqlCacheControl` flag. By setting cache rules, you can store responses and reuse them for subsequent requests through [FastStore API's GraphQL layer](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/faststore-api-overview), reducing server load and improving store performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to configure caching for GraphQL GET requests using the `graphqlCacheControl` flag. Setting cache rules allows responses to be stored and reused for subsequent requests, reducing server load and improving store performance.
```

The `graphqlCacheControl` flag defines how long responses should be stored and reused by configuring caching for GraphQL GET requests.

> > ℹ POST requests bypass caching by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ℹ POST requests are excluded from caching by default. This ensures that data sent in the request body, such as user inputs or sensitive information, is always processed in real time and not served from the cache.
```

> In this guide, learn how to enable and configure the `graphqlCacheControl` flag.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Before you begin

> Make sure the @faststore/cli package from your project is updated to the latest version. To do so, follow the instructions in [Updating the '@faststore/cli' package version](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/project-structure-updating-the-cli-package-version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your project is using the latest version of the @faststore/cli package. To do so, follow the instructions in [Updating the '@faststore/cli' package version](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/project-structure-updating-the-cli-package-version).
```

## Instructions

Since the `graphqlCacheControl` flag is an experimental feature, declare it under the `experimental` section of `discovery.config.js` file.

1. Open your FastStore project in a code editor.
2. Open the `discovery.config.js` file.

> 3. Under the `experimental` section add `graphqlCacheControl` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Under the `experimental` section, add the `graphqlCacheControl` flag:
```

        },
    },
    ```

    For the example above the `maxAge` and `staleWhileRevalidate` objects received the following values:

    | Object    | Description     |
    | --------- | --------------- |
    | `maxAge: 5 * 60` | Refers to the time of a response stays fresh in cache. <ul><li>Responses are cached for 5 minutes (300 seconds).</li><li>After 5 minutes, the cache is considered `stale`.</li><li>`maxAge: 0` - The `0` value would disable caching entirely.</li></ul> |
    | `staleWhileRevalidate: 60` | Refers to the time of stale cache can be used while new data fetches in the background. <ul><li>After the initial 5 minutes (when `maxAge expires`), stale cached data can still be served for up to 1 extra minute (60 seconds) while the system fetches fresh data in the background.</li><li>This ensures users see slightly older data (for 1 minute maximum) instead of waiting for a full reload.</li></ul> |

    This configuration creates a tiered caching system that balances immediate performance with data freshness. See in the table below what happens over time:

    | **Object** | **Cache state** | **Behavior** |
    | ------ | ----------- | -------- |

>     | 0s - 300s  | Fresh | <ul><li>Serves cached responses instantly.</li><li>No backend requests unless first hit.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | 0s - 300s  | Fresh | <ul><li>Serves cached responses instantly.</li><li>No backend requests unless it's the first request.</li></ul> |
```

    | 300 s - 360 s  | Stale | <ul><li>Serves old data while fetching updates.</li><li>Simultaneously fetches fresh data in background.</li></ul> |

>     | After 360 s  | Expired | <ul><li>Cache fully expires.</li><li>Next request triggers fresh data fetch.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | After 360 s  | Expired | <ul><li>Cache fully expires.</li><li>Next request triggers a fresh data fetch.</li></ul> |
```
